Consider a fairly standard industrial robot
with 6 rotational joints. Trying to add a
coordinate frame on link zero and going to
add a coordinate frame on link 6 which is
the end-effector frame the bit of the robot
that actually does the work. And we talked
about kinematic models which relate the pose
of frame 6 with respect to frame zero and
it's a function of the 6th joint angles of
the robot. Let's say now that this robot exists
in a factory and the factory is got its own
world coordinate frame indicated over here.
And we know the pose of the robot link zero
with respect to the world coordinate frame.
We called this the base transform of the robot.
The pose of the robots end effector in the
world coordinate frame can be attained for
it's simply by compounding the base transform
with the forward kinematic transform of the
robot which is a function of the robot's joint angles.
Imagine now that I introduced another robot,
this one's hanging upside down from the roof
and we know its pose with respect to the
world coordinate frame then we can write an
expression for the end-effector pose of the
second robot with respect to the world.
Now, let's look at the tool end of the robot.
The kinematics give us the pose of the robots
end effector but typically it actually does
gives us the pose of some mounting flange
on the end of the robot and we would like
to affix some sort of tool to that. So, we
are going to introduce the tool here, this
is some kind of grinding tool that the robot
is carrying. And of course, we're interested
in the business end of this particular tool.
We want to know the pose of this coordinate
frame here. In with some careful measurement,
we can determine the relative pose from the frame 6 to frame E and this would be constant relative pose.
So, now the pose of the end-effector, with
respect to the world coordinate frame, can
be written by this set of compounded poses.
It's the base transform compounded with the
kinematic model of the arm compounded with
the constant tool transform from the mounting
point to the business end of the tool.
Here's one of our previous MATLAB sessions
where we were working with a model of the
Puma-560 robot. We can see here under the
table of the Denavit-Hartenberg parameters
that there is a base transform matrix and
a tool transform matrix and each of them corresponds
to zero rotation and zero translation. But
we can easily change the base transform of
the robot for instance by adjusting the base
property of the serial link robot object.
So, I might change the translational path
of the base transform. Perhaps, I will place
the robot at 10 meters in the X direction
and 15 meters in the Y direction and maybe
I will put it up a little bit higher or move
it up two meters in the Z direction. So, now
the robot object has got a different base
transform that we find.
Now, compute the forward kinematics of the
robot, this is taken into account and we can
see that the end-effector position now is
quite different. The base transform is a very
powerful function and I could set a more complex
base transform. For instance, I could actually
turn the robot upside down and I am going
to rotate it around the x-axis by pi radians
so this is what the robot base transform looks
like now and if I again compute the forward
kinematics for that same set joint angles,
we'll see that the position of the robot end-effector
is different and we can see that the orientation
of the end-effector is very different the
positive and minus signs in the rotations
sub matrix are in different locations. So,
I have effectively moved the robot and turn
it upside down and that's very very easy to
do with this concept of a base transform.
The other thing that I might want to do to
the robot is to add a tool transform to it
and do that by adjusting the tool property
and I might declare that the tool has got
an offset of zero in the x direction, zero
in the Y direction and perhaps it's 0.2 meters
in the Z direction which is pointing out of
the mounting plate on the end of the robot.
And now, you can see that the tool transform
represents a finite displacement. And now,
if I'm going to compute the forward kinematics
for that particular set of joint angles, we'll
see that the end-effector position is slightly
different because now it's taking this tool
transform into a count.